[IMP] time off: updating images and directions (#8021)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/time_off.rst

Time Off
========

Odoo's *Time Off* application serves as a centralized hub for all time-off-related information. This
application manages requests, balances, allocations, approvals, and reports.

Users can :ref:`request time off <time_off/request-time-off>`, and see an overview of their requests
and time off balances. Managers can :ref:`allocate time off <time_off/allocate>` to individuals,
teams, or the whole company, and :ref:`approve time off requests <time_off/manage-time-off>`.

Detailed :ref:`reports <time_off/reporting>` can be run to see how much time off (and what kinds of
time off) are being used, :ref:`accrual plans <time_off/accrual-plans>` can be created, and
:ref:`public holidays <time_off/public-holidays>` can be set.

.. note::

>    Be advised, only users with specific access rights can see all aspects of the *Time Off*

Reviewer: Can you please update the doc path to be relative on line 24?
```
   :doc:`employees/new_employee` document, specifically the section about configuring the work
   information tab.
```

Author: Sure- I was just so excited I got the link to work because I struggle with doc links every single time ^_^

>   options are:

Author: I changed the parts where it was the name of a section, but the rest of the doc I left as-is. The only reason why is, when I started to change them- it was going to change almost ALL of them.

For example, if the UI, you click Reporting - the the options are "by Employee", so I was not sure if I should make that section also have caps ("By Employee").  If I did that- then 95% of the doc would have title case headings, and there would be only a couple of headings NOT like that (then I worried that would look weird- why would only a coupe of them not be in title case?). So I kept it to just altering the ones for the sections on the form.

I can change more- but I thought this was a good idea. I am totally open to changing more if it seems better (but it seemed to be ok in the rest of the doc).

  - :guilabel:`No Validation`: no approvals are required when requesting this type of time off. The
    time off request is automatically approved.
  - :guilabel:`By Time Off Officer`: only the specified :ref:`Time Off Officer

>     <time_off/time-off-officer>`, set on this form in the :guilabel:`Responsible Time Off Officer`

Author: Thanks for catching that- they changed it to "Notified" instead of "Responsible" - I changed it in the section it's covered, but not here.

  :guilabel:`Yes`. If the time off can be requested without time off being previously allocated,
  select :guilabel:`No Limit`. If :guilabel:`No Limit` is selected, the following options do not
  appear on the form.
- :guilabel:`Employee Requests`: select :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` if the employee is
  able to request more time off than was allocated.

  If employees should **not** be able to make requests for more time off than what was allocated,
  select the :guilabel:`Not Allowed` option.

  .. example::
     Ten days are allocated to the employee for this particular type of time off, and the
     :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` option is enabled. The employee wants to take a
     vacation for twelve days. They may submit a request for two additional days since the
     :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` option is enabled.

  .. important::
     It is important to note that requesting additional time off does not guarantee that time off is
     granted.

- :guilabel:`Approval`: select the type of approvals required for the allocation of this particular
  time off type.

>   - :guilabel:`Approved by Time Off Officer` indicates the :ref:`Time Off Officer

Author: You should see it on the time off type form (config- time off types - new). I triple checked with my test DB, and again in a 17.0 runbot, and also a 17.2 runbot just to make sure something didn't change in that version for some reason. This is what I see below- I am not sure why you didn't see those fields, unless it was a runbot someone messed around in and changed settings?

![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/678c6b73-06f1-4c5b-9c3d-e1428872153e)

  either :guilabel:`Worked Time` or :guilabel:`Absence`. :guilabel:`Worked Time` indicates that the
  time off taken counts towards worked time for any type of accrual the employee is working towards,
  whereas :guilabel:`Absence` does not count towards any type of accrual.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if multiple companies are created in the database, and this time off type
  only applies to one company, select the company from the drop-down menu. If this field is left
  blank, the time off type applies to all companies in the database. This field only appears in a
  multi-company database.

Negative cap section
********************

Enable the :guilabel:`Allow Negative Cap` option if employees are able to request more time off than
they currently have, allowing a negative balance. If enabled, an :guilabel:`Amount in Negative`
field appears. Enter the maximum amount of negative time allowed, in days.

.. example::
   Sara currently has three days of vacation. She is planning a trip that requires five days of
   vacation. Enabling the :guilabel:`Allow Negative Cap` option allows Sara to submit a request for

>    five days. If approved, her time off balance will be negative two (-2) days.

Author: Since if the cap was set to one day (unlikely but possible), this example would not be true. So adding it!

- :guilabel:`Employee Requests`: select :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` if the employee is
  able to request more time off than was allocated.

  If employees should **not** be able to make requests for more time off than what was allocated,
  select the :guilabel:`Not Allowed` option.

  .. example::

>      Ten (10) days are allocated to the employee for this particular type of time off, and the

Reviewer 2: I'm not really understanding why we need the numerical value of the days in parentheses, but if you have a reason for doing so, feel free to ignore this suggestion
```suggestion
     Ten days are allocated to the employee for this particular type of time off, and the
```

Reviewer 2: Also, what is "particular type of time off" referring to? Is this Employee Requests? if so, maybe we should specify that so there's absolutely no confusion

     :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` option is enabled. The employee wants to take a
     vacation for twelve (12) days. They may submit a request for two (2) additional days since the
     :guilabel:`Extra Days Requests Allowed` option is enabled.

     It is important to note that requesting additional time off does not guarantee that time off is
     granted.

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe we can just put this in a note or important admonition block, since "requesting additional time off does not guarantee that time off is granted" is probably true for all time off types

- :guilabel:`Approval`: select the type of approval(s) required for the allocation of this
  particular type of time off.

  - :guilabel:`Approved by Time Off Officer` indicates the :ref:`Time Off Officer
    <time_off/time-off-officer>` set on this form must approve the allocation.
  - :guilabel:`No validation needed` indicates that no approvals are required.

Configuration section
*********************

  .. _`time_off/time-off-officer`:

> - :guilabel:`Notified Time Off Officer`: select the person who is notified when this type of time
>   off is requested, as well as responsible for approving requests and allocations for this specific
>   type of time off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Notified Time Off Officer`: select the person who is notified and responsible for approving requests and allocations for this specific
  type of time off.
```

     off, the request would be for three (3) hours, since the two (2) additionally worked hours are
     used first, and deducted from the request.

- :guilabel:`Allow To Attach Supporting Document`: enable this option to allow the employee to
  attach documents to the time off request. This is useful in situations where documentation is
  required, such as long-term medical leave.
- :guilabel:`Kind of Time Off`: select from the drop-down menu the *type* of time off this is,
  either :guilabel:`Worked Time` or :guilabel:`Absence`. :guilabel:`Worked Time` indicates that the
  time off taken counts towards as worked time for any type of accrual the employee is working
  towards, whereas :guilabel:`Absence` does not count towards any type of accrual.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if multiple companies are created in the database, and this time off type
  only applies to one company, select the company from the drop-down menu. If this field is left
  blank, the time off type applies to all companies in the database.

Negative cap section
********************

Enable the :guilabel:`Allow Negative Cap` option if employees are able to request more time off than

> they currently have, bringing their time off balance into a negative number. If enabled, an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they currently have, allowing negative balances. If enabled, an
```

.. note::
   The only required fields on the time off type form are the name of the :guilabel:`Time Off Type`,
   the :guilabel:`Take Time Off In`, and the :guilabel:`Kind of Time Off`. In addition, the

>    :guilabel:`Time Off Requests` and :guilabel:`Allocation Requests` sections must be configured.

Author: I didn't like how it would look if it was 'fill out the following field:' then there was a note block after a colon. I was also unsure about naming the fields before they were explained, so that's also why it was at the bottom. But I changed that first sentence with a colon, and moved the note beneath it.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a new accrual plan, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Configuration --> Accrual
Plans`. Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button, which reveals a blank accrual plan form.

Enter the following information on the form:

- :guilabel:`Name`: enter the accrual plan name.

> - :guilabel:`Accrued Gain Time`: select when the employee accrues the time, either :guilabel:`At the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Accrued Gain Time`: select when the employee begins to accrue time off hours, either :guilabel:`At the
```

  start of the accrual period` or :guilabel:`At the end of the accrual period`.
- :guilabel:`Carry-Over Time`: select when the employee received previously earned time. The options
  are:

  - :guilabel:`At the start of the year`: select this if the accrual rolls over on January 1 of the
    upcoming year.
  - :guilabel:`At the allocation date`: select this if the accrual rolls over as soon as time is
    allocated to the employee.
  - :guilabel:`Other`: select this option if neither of the other two options applies. When
    selected, a :guilabel:`Carry-Over Date` field appears. Select the date using the two drop-down
    menus, one for the day and one for the month.

> - :guilabel:`Based on worked time`: enable this option if the accrual of time off is based on the
>   time the employee has worked. If an employee takes time off that is *not* considered a worked day,
>   Odoo will not count that day towards their accrual plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Based on worked time`: enable this option if time off accrual is determined
  by the employee's worked hours. Days *not* considered as worked will not contribute
  to the accrual plan in Odoo.
```

- :guilabel:`Employee accrue`: select the parameters for earned time off in this section.

  First, select either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours` for the increment of accrued time using
  the drop-down menu.

  Next, enter the numerical amount of the selected parameter that is accrued. The numerical format
  is `X.XXXX`, so that partial days or hours can also be configured.

  Last, select how often the time is accrued using the drop-down menu. The default options are
  :guilabel:`Hourly`, :guilabel:`Daily`, :guilabel:`Weekly`, :guilabel:`Twice a month`,
  :guilabel:`Monthly`, :guilabel:`Twice a year`, and :guilabel:`Yearly`.

  Depending on which option is selected, additional fields may appear. For example, if
  :guilabel:`Twice a month` is selected, two additional fields appear, to specify the two days of
  each month that the milestone occurs.
- :guilabel:`Cap accrued time`: if there is a maximum amount of days the employee can accrue with
  this plan, enable this option.

  When enabled, two additional fields appear beneath it. Select the type of time period from the
  drop-down menu, either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours`.

>   Then enter a numerical value in the field to indicate the maximum amount of time that can be
>   accrued.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Enter a numerical value in the field to specify the maximum accrual amount of time.
```

  first field.

  Then, select the type of time period using the drop-down menu in the second field. The options
  are: :guilabel:`Days`, :guilabel:`Months`, or :guilabel:`Years`.
- :guilabel:`Carry over`: select how any unused time off is handled. The options are either:

  - :guilabel:`None. Accrued time reset to 0`: any unused time off is gone.
  - :guilabel:`All accrued time carried over`: all unused time off is rolled over to the next
    calendar year.
  - :guilabel:`Carry over with a maximum`: unused time off is rolled over to the next calendar year,
    but there is a cap. An :guilabel:`Up to` field appears if this is selected. Enter the maximum
    number of :guilabel:`Days` that can roll over to the following year. Any time off beyond this
    parameter is lost.

Once the form is completed, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the form and close the pop-up, or
click :guilabel:`Save & New` to save the form and create another milestone. Add as many milestones
as desired.

.. image:: time_off/milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A milestone form with all the entries filled out.

.. _time_off/public-holidays:

Public holidays
---------------

> Most countries have public or national holidays that are observed, and offices are closed. In
> addition, some companies may have specific days they are closed and/or provide extra days off as
> holidays to their employees.

Reviewer 2: To make a little bit more concise?
```suggestion
To observe public or national holidays and provide extra days off as
holidays to employees, configure *public holidays* in Odoo.
```

- :guilabel:`Employee accrue`: select the parameters for earned time off in this section.

  First, select either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours` for the increment of accrued time using
  the drop-down menu.

  Next, enter the numerical amount of the selected parameter that is accrued. The numerical format
  is `X.XXXX`, so that partial days or hours can also be configured.

  Last, select how often the time is accrued using the drop-down menu. The default options are
  :guilabel:`Hourly`, :guilabel:`Daily`, :guilabel:`Weekly`, :guilabel:`Twice a month`,
  :guilabel:`Monthly`, :guilabel:`Twice a year`, and :guilabel:`Yearly`.

  Depending on which option is selected, additional fields may appear. For example, if
  :guilabel:`Twice a month` is selected, two additional fields appear, to specify the two days of
  each month that the milestone occurs.
- :guilabel:`Cap accrued time`: if there is a maximum amount of days the employee can accrue with
  this plan, enable this option.

  When enabled, two additional fields appear beneath it. Select the type of time period from the
  drop-down menu, either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours`.

>   Then enter a numerical value in the field to specify the maximum amount of time that can be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Then, enter a numerical value in the field to specify the maximum amount of time that can be
```

    calendar year.
  - :guilabel:`Carry over with a maximum`: unused time off is rolled over to the next calendar year,
    but there is a cap. An :guilabel:`Up to` field appears if this is selected. Enter the maximum
    number of :guilabel:`Days` that can roll over to the following year. Any time off beyond this
    parameter is lost.

Once the form is completed, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the form and close the pop-up
window, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to save the form and create another milestone. Add as many
milestones as desired.

.. image:: time_off/milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A milestone form with all the entries filled out.

.. _time_off/public-holidays:

Public holidays
---------------

To observe public or national holidays, and provide extra days off as holidays to employees,
configure the observed *public holidays* in Odoo.

It is important to configure these days in Odoo, so employees are aware of the days they have off,
and do not request time off on days that are already set as a public holiday (non-working days).

Additionally, all public holidays configured in the *Time Off* app are also reflected in any app

> that uses **working schedules**, such as the *Calendar*, *Planning*, *Manufacturing* app, and more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that uses working schedules, such as *Calendar*, *Planning*, *Manufacturing*, and more.
```

.. example::
   If an employee accrues a vacation day for every week they work, they would earn 0.2 vacation days
   for each hour they work. At the end of a forty hour work week, they would earn one whole vacation
   day (8 hours).

Create accrual plan
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a new accrual plan, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Configuration --> Accrual
Plans`. Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button, which reveals a blank accrual plan form.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty line
```suggestion
```

  employee's worked hours. Days **not** considered as worked time do **not** contribute to the
  accrual plan in Odoo.
- :guilabel:`Milestone Transition`: this selection determines when employees move up to a new
  milestone. If they qualify to change milestones in the middle of a pay period, select if the
  employee changes milestones :guilabel:`Immediately` or :guilabel:`After this accrual's period`
  (after the current pay period).

  .. important::
     The :guilabel:`Milestone Transition` field is **only** visible after a minimum of two
     :ref:`rules <time_off/rules>` have been configured on the accrual plan.

- :guilabel:`Company`: using the drop-down menu, select the company the accrual plan applies to. If
  left blank, the accrual plan can be used for all companies. This field only appears in a
  multi-company database.

.. image:: time_off/accrual-plan-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An accrual plan form with all the entries filled out.

.. _time_off/rules:

Rules
*****

Rules must be created in order for employees to accrue time off from the accrual plan.

To create a new rule, click the :guilabel:`New Milestone` button in the gray :guilabel:`Rules`

> section, and a :guilabel:`Create Milestone` pop-up form appears.

Reviewer: This is a _modal_ UI element rather than a _pop-up_ :)
```suggestion
section, and a :guilabel:`Create Milestone` modal appears.
```

Author: Wow- I have never even heard that word before!

  drop-down menu, either :guilabel:`Days` or :guilabel:`Hours`.

  Then, enter a numerical value in the field to specify the maximum amount of time that can be
  accrued.
- :guilabel:`Milestone reached`: enter the number and value of the time period that must pass before
  the employee starts to accumulate time off. The first value is numerical; enter a number in the
  first field.

  Then, select the type of time period using the drop-down menu in the second field. The options
  are: :guilabel:`Days`, :guilabel:`Months`, or :guilabel:`Years`.
- :guilabel:`Carry over`: select how any unused time off is handled. The options are either:

  - :guilabel:`None. Accrued time reset to 0`: any unused time off is gone.
  - :guilabel:`All accrued time carried over`: all unused time off is rolled over to the next
    calendar year.
  - :guilabel:`Carry over with a maximum`: unused time off is rolled over to the next calendar year,
    but there is a cap. An :guilabel:`Up to` field appears if this is selected. Enter the maximum
    number of :guilabel:`Days` that can roll over to the following year. Any time off beyond this
    parameter is lost.

> Once the form is completed, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the form and close the pop-up
> window, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to save the form and create another milestone. Add as many
> milestones as desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the form is completed, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the form and close the modal, or
click :guilabel:`Save & New` to save the form and create another milestone. Add as many milestones
as desired.
```

     the top-right corner of the list, and activate the :guilabel:`Company` selection.

- :guilabel:`Start Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  starts. By default, this field is configured for the current date. The start time is set according
  to the start time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules
  <payroll/working-times>`). If the user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time
  is adjusted according to the difference in the time zone compared to the company's time zone.
- :guilabel:`End Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  ends. By default, this field is configured for the current date, and the time is set to the end
  time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules <payroll/working-times>`). If the
  user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time is adjusted according to the
  difference in the time zone compared to the company's time zone.

  .. example::
     A company located in San Francisco operates from 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM, with an eight hour work day
     and a one hour lunch break.

>      For a user in New York with a computer time zone set to Eastern, a created public holiday

Author: Ooof. I am showing my time zone privilege here =D

     displays a start time of 12:00 PM - 9:00 PM, accounting for the time zone difference.

     Similarly, a user located in Los Angeles with a computer time zone set to Pacific sees a public
     holiday time as 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM.

- :guilabel:`Working Hours`: if the holiday should only apply to employees who have a specific set
  of working hours, select the working hours from the drop-down menu. If left blank, the holiday
  applies to all employees.
- :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`: if using the *Payroll* application, this field defines how the
  :ref:`work entries <payroll/work-entries>`  for the holiday appear. Select the work entry type
  from the drop-down menu.

.. image:: time_off/holidays.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The list of public holidays in the configuration menu.

> 

Author: I can't believe I missed that. 0_0

All currently configured public holidays appear in a list view.

Click the :guilabel:`New` button, and a new line appears at the bottom of the list.

Enter the following information:

- :guilabel:`Name`: enter the name of the holiday.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company database, the current company populates this field by
  default. It is not possible to edit this field.

  .. note::

>      This field is hidden by default. To view this field, click the two dots in the top-right corner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     The :guilabel:`Company` field is hidden by default. To view this field, click the two dots in the top-right corner
```

     of the list, and activate the :guilabel:`Company` selection.

- :guilabel:`Start Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  starts. By default, this field is configured for the current date. The start time is set according
  to the start time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules
  <payroll/working-times>`). If the user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time
  is adjusted according to the difference in the time zone compared to the company's time zone.
- :guilabel:`End Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  ends. By default, this field is configured for the current date, and the time is set to the end
  time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules <payroll/working-times>`). If the
  user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time is adjusted according to the
  difference in the time zone compared to the company's time zone.

  .. example::

>      A company is located in San Francisco, and the working schedule is 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM (an eight
>      (8) hour work day with a one (1) hour lunch break).
> 
>      A user is located in New York, and their computer time zone is set to Eastern. When they create
>      a Public Holiday, the start time appears as 12:00 PM - 9:00 PM, since the time zone is
>      accounted for.
> 
>      If a different user is located in Los Angeles, and their computer time zone is set to Pacific,
>      when they create a Public Holiday, the time appears as 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     A company located in San Francisco operates from 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM, with an eight
     hour work day and an hour lunch break.

     For a user in New York with the computer time zone set to Eastern, a created public holiday displays a start time of 12:00 PM - 9:00 PM, considering the time zone. 

     Similarly, a user in Los Angeles with a computer time zone set to Pacific sees a public holiday time as 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM.
```

All currently configured public holidays appear in a list view.

Click the :guilabel:`New` button, and a new line appears at the bottom of the list.

Enter the following information on that new line:

- :guilabel:`Name`: enter the name of the holiday.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company database, the current company populates this field by
  default. It is not possible to edit this field.

  .. note::
     The :guilabel:`Company` field is hidden by default. To view this field, click the two dots in
     the top-right corner of the list, to the far-right of the column titles, and activate the

>      :guilabel:`Company` selection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     :guilabel:`Company` selection from the drop-down menu that appears.
```

  starts. By default, this field is configured for the current date. The start time is set according
  to the start time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules
  <payroll/working-times>`). If the user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time
  is adjusted according to the difference in the time zone, compared to the company's time zone.
- :guilabel:`End Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  ends. By default, this field is configured for the current date, and the time is set to the end
  time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules <payroll/working-times>`). If the
  user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time is adjusted according to the
  difference in the time zone, compared to the company's time zone.

  .. example::
     A company located in San Francisco operates from 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM, with an eight hour work day
     and one hour lunch break.

     For a user in New York, with a computer time zone set to Eastern Standard Time, a created
     public holiday displays a start time of 12:00 PM - 9:00 PM, accounting for the time zone
     difference.

>      Similarly, a user located in Los Angeles with a computer time zone set to Pacific Standard

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     Similarly, a user located in Los Angeles, with a computer time zone set to Pacific Standard
```

>      Time,sees a public holiday time as 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     Time, sees a public holiday time as 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM.
```

- :guilabel:`Working Hours`: if the holiday should only apply to employees who have a specific set
  of working hours, select the working hours from the drop-down menu. If left blank, the holiday
  applies to all employees.
- :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`: if using the *Payroll* application, this field defines how the
  :ref:`work entries <payroll/work-entries>` for the holiday appear. Select the work entry type
  from the drop-down menu.

.. image:: time_off/holidays.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The list of public holidays in the configuration menu.

Mandatory days
--------------

> Some companies have special days where specific departments, or the entire staff is required to be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some companies have special days where specific departments, or the entire staff, is required to be
```

present, and time off is not allowed on those specific days.

These types of days are called *mandatory days* in Odoo. These can be configured to be company-wide,
or department specific. When configured, employees in the specified department or company are unable
to submit time off requests for these mandatory days.

Create mandatory days
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No mandatory days are configured in Odoo by default. To create a mandatory day, navigate to
:menuselection:`Time Off app --> Configuration --> Mandatory Days`.

Click the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner, and a blank line appears in the list.

Enter the following information on that new line:

- :guilabel:`Name`: enter the name of the mandatory day.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company database, this field is visible, and the current
  company populates this field by default. Using the drop-down menu, select the company the
  mandatory day is for.
- :guilabel:`Departments`: this field is hidden by default. First, click the :guilabel:`two dots` in

>   the top-right corner next to :guilabel:`Colors`, and then click the checkbox next to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the top-right corner, next to :guilabel:`Colors`, and then click the checkbox next to
```

  :guilabel:`Departments` to reveal that column.

>   Nest, select the desired departments from the drop-down menu. Multiple departments can be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Next, select the desired departments from the drop-down menu. Multiple departments can be
```

  selected, and there is no limit to the amount of departments that can be added.

  If this field is left blank, the mandatory day applies to the entire company.
- :guilabel:`Start Date`: using the calendar picker, select the date the mandatory day starts.
- :guilabel:`End Date`: using the calendar picker, select the date the mandatory day ends. If
  creating a single mandatory day, the end date should be the same as the start date.
- :guilabel:`Color`: if desired, select a color from the available presented options. If no color is
  desired, select the `No color` option, represented by a white box with a red line diagonally

>   across it. The selected color appears on the main time off dashboard, in both the calendar and on

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  across it. The selected color appears on the main *Time Off* application dashboard, in both the calendar and on
```

- :guilabel:`Start Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  starts. By default, this field is configured for the current date. The start time is set according
  to the start time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules
  <payroll/working-times>`). If the user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time
  is adjusted according to the difference in the time zone, compared to the company's time zone.
- :guilabel:`End Date`: using the date and time picker, select the date and time that the holiday
  ends. By default, this field is configured for the current date, and the time is set to the end
  time for the company (according to the :ref:`working schedules <payroll/working-times>`). If the
  user's computer is set to a different time zone, the start time is adjusted according to the
  difference in the time zone, compared to the company's time zone.

  .. example::
     A company located in San Francisco operates from 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM, with an eight hour work day
     and one hour lunch break.

     For a user in New York, with a computer time zone set to Eastern Standard Time, a created

>      public holiday displays a start time of 12:00 PM - 9:00 PM, accounting for the time zone
>      difference.

Reviewer: Suggestion to add the time difference
```suggestion
     public holiday displays a start time of 12:00 PM - 9:00 PM, accounting for the three hour time
     zone difference.
```

.. image:: time_off/holidays.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The list of public holidays in the configuration menu.

Mandatory days
--------------

Some companies have special days where specific departments, or the entire staff, is required to be
present, and time off is not allowed on those specific days.

These types of days are called *mandatory days* in Odoo. These can be configured to be company-wide,
or department specific. When configured, employees in the specified department or company are unable
to submit time off requests for these mandatory days.

Create mandatory days
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No mandatory days are configured in Odoo by default. To create a mandatory day, navigate to
:menuselection:`Time Off app --> Configuration --> Mandatory Days`.

Click the :guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner, and a blank line appears in the list.

Enter the following information on that new line:

- :guilabel:`Name`: enter the name of the mandatory day.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if in a multi-company database, this field is visible, and the current
  company populates this field by default. Using the drop-down menu, select the company the
  mandatory day is for.

> - :guilabel:`Departments`: this field is hidden by default. First, click the :guilabel:`two dots` in
>   the top-right corner, next to :guilabel:`Colors`, and then click the checkbox next to
>   :guilabel:`Departments` to reveal that column.

Reviewer: Icon formatting and icon name
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Departments`: this column is hidden by default. First, click the :guilabel:`(optional
  columns)` icon in the top-right corner, next to :guilabel:`Colors`, and then click the checkbox
  next to :guilabel:`Departments` to reveal that column.
```

- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: if any description or note is necessary to explain the time off
  allocation, enter it in this field at the bottom of the form.

.. image:: time_off/new-allocation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A new allocation form with all the fields filled out for the annual two week vacation
         granted to all employees.

.. _time_off/request-time-off:

Request time off
================

Once an employee has been allocated time off, a request to use the time off can be submitted. Time
off can be requested in one of two ways, either from the :ref:`dashboard <time_off/dashboard>` or
from the :ref:`My Time Off <time_off/my-time-off>` view.

To access the dashboard, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`. This

> is also the default view for the *Time Off* application.

Author: I just re-worded this slightly.

To access :guilabel:`My Time Off`, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> My Time
Off`. This presents a list view of all the time off requests for the employee.

To create a new request for time off, click the :guilabel:`New` button on either the main *Time Off*
:guilabel:`Dashboard` or the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view.

.. note::
   Both :guilabel:`New` buttons open a :guilabel:`New Time Off` request form, but when requested
   from the :guilabel:`Dashboard`, the form appears in a pop-up window. When requested from the

>    :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view, the screen navigates to a new time off request page instead.

Author: I changed this a bit so it is more technically accurate- with the GUI only where it is explicitly matching the UI.  I see what you mean- and I missed that because I wanted to make sure that the user knew they could do the same thing from two different places- and they might look slightly different, but they were for the same thing.

Enter the following information on the :guilabel:`New Time Off` request form:

- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: select the type of time off being requested from the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Dates`: enter the dates that the time off falls under. There are two fields to
  populate, the start and end dates. Click on either date field and a calendar pop-up appears.

  Click on the start date, then click on the end date. The selected start and end dates appear in

>   deep teal, and the dates between them appear in pale teal (if applicable).

Author: I am such a color-focused person, the idea to NOT mention the color didn't occur to me! =D  I agree- I think I was focused on the color because it changed from the previous version to this one. But I like your idea!

  reflect the total time off requested. This field is in either hours or days, depending on how the
  selected :guilabel:`Time Off Type` is configured.
- :guilabel:`Description`: enter a description for the time off request. This should include any
  details that managers and approvers may need in order to approve the request.
- :guilabel:`Supporting Document`: this field only appears if the :guilabel:`Time Off Type` selected
  allows for the attachments of documents. Click the :guilabel:`Attach File` button, and a file
  explorer window appears.

  Navigate to the files to attach, select them, then click the :guilabel:`Open` button. The files
  then appear on the time off request form. Multiple documents can be attached, if necessary.

If the request was created from the :guilabel:`dashboard`, click the :guilabel:`Save & Close` button
to save the information and submit the request. If the form was completed from the :guilabel:`My
Time Off` list view, the information is automatically saved as it is entered. However, the form can
be saved manually at any time by clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a

> :guilabel:`cloud with an upwards arrow inside` icon.

Author: I changed the save manually description to the shorter " :guilabel:`cloud upload` icon."

  selected for an :guilabel:`Accrual Allocation`.
- :guilabel:`Validity Period/Start Date`: if :guilabel:`Regular Allocation` is selected for the
  :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, this field is labeled :guilabel:`Validity Period`. If
  :guilabel:`Accrual Allocation` is selected for the :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, this field is
  labeled :guilabel:`Start Date`.

  The current date populates the first date field by default. To select another date, click on the
  pre-populated date to reveal a pop-up calendar window. Navigate to the desired start date for the
  allocation, and click on the date to select it.

  If the allocation expires, select the expiration date in the next date field. If the time off does
  *not* expire, leave the second date field blank. `No Limit` appears in the field if no date is
  selected.

  If :guilabel:`Accrual Allocation` is selected for the :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, this second
  field is labeled :guilabel:`Run until`.
- :guilabel:`Allocation`: enter the amount of time that is being allocated to the employees. This
  field displays the time in either :guilabel:`Hours` or :guilabel:`Days`, depending on how the

>   selected :ref:`Time Off Type <time_off/time-off-types>` is configured (in days or hours).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  selected :ref:`Time Off Type <time_off/time-off-types>` is configured (in hours or days).
```

After entering a name for the allocation on the first blank field of the form, enter the following
information:

- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: using the drop-down menu, select the type of time off that is being
  allocated to the employees.
- :guilabel:`Allocation Type`: select either :guilabel:`Regular Allocation` or :guilabel:`Accrual
  Allocation`. If the allocation is **not** based on an accrual plan, select :guilabel:`Regular
  Allocation`.
- :guilabel:`Accrual Plan`: if :guilabel:`Accrual Allocation` is selected for the
  :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, the :guilabel:`Accrual Plan` field appears. Using the drop-down menu,
  select the accrual plan with which the allocation is associated. An accrual plan **must** be
  selected for an :guilabel:`Accrual Allocation`.
- :guilabel:`Validity Period/Start Date`: if :guilabel:`Regular Allocation` is selected for the
  :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, this field is labeled :guilabel:`Validity Period`. If
  :guilabel:`Accrual Allocation` is selected for the :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, this field is
  labeled :guilabel:`Start Date`.

  The current date populates the first date field by default. To select another date, click on the

>   pre-populated date to reveal a pop-up calendar window. Navigate to the desired start date for the

Reviewer: This UI element is a _popover_ and not a _pop-up_ :)
```suggestion
  pre-populated date to reveal a popover calendar window. Navigate to the desired start date for the
```

         granted to all employees.

.. _time_off/request-time-off:

Request time off
================

Once an employee has been allocated time off, a request to use the time off can be submitted. Time
off can be requested in one of two ways, either from the :ref:`dashboard <time_off/dashboard>` or
from the :ref:`My Time Off <time_off/my-time-off>` view.

To access the dashboard, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`. This
is also the first page that appears when the *Time Off* application is opened.

To access :guilabel:`My Time Off`, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> My Time
Off`. This presents a list view of all the time off requests for the employee.

To create a new request for time off, click the :guilabel:`New` button on either the main *Time Off*
:guilabel:`Dashboard` or the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view.

.. note::
   Both :guilabel:`New` buttons allow the user to request time off, but when requested from the
   :guilabel:`Dashboard`, a :guilabel:`New Time Off` request form appears in a pop-up window. When
   requested from the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view, the screen navigates to a new time off

>    request page instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   request page, instead.
```

    drop-down menu, select either :guilabel:`Morning` or :guilabel:`Afternoon` to indicate which
    half of the day is being requested.
  - :guilabel:`Custom Hours`: if the time off requested is not a whole or half day, check this box.
    A :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` field appears beneath this option, if selected. Using the
    drop-down menu, select the start and end time for the time off request.

- :guilabel:`Duration`: this field updates automatically once the :guilabel:`Date` section is
  completed. If the :guilabel:`Date` section is modified, this section automatically updates to
  reflect the total time off requested. This field is in either hours or days, depending on how the
  selected :guilabel:`Time Off Type` is configured.
- :guilabel:`Description`: enter a description for the time off request. This should include any
  details that managers and approvers may need in order to approve the request.
- :guilabel:`Supporting Document`: this field only appears if the :guilabel:`Time Off Type` selected
  allows for the attachments of documents. Click the :guilabel:`Attach File` button, and a file
  explorer window appears.

>   Navigate to the files to attach, select them, then click the :guilabel:`Open` button. The files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Navigate to the desired files to attach, select them, then click the :guilabel:`Open` button. The files
```

- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: if any description or note is necessary to explain the time off
  allocation, enter it in this field at the bottom of the form.

.. image:: time_off/new-allocation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A new allocation form with all the fields filled out for the annual two week vacation
         granted to all employees.

.. _time_off/request-time-off:

Request time off
================

Once an employee has been allocated time off, a request to use the time off can be submitted. Time
off can be requested in one of two ways, either from the :ref:`dashboard <time_off/dashboard>` or
from the :ref:`My Time Off <time_off/my-time-off>` view.

> To access the dashboard, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`. This
> is also the first page that appears when the *Time Off* application is opened.

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove the Dashboard navigation since you referenced it above
```suggestion
```

> To access :guilabel:`My Time Off`, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> My Time
> Off`. This presents a list view of all the time off requests for the employee.

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove the My Time Off navigation since you referenced it above
```suggestion
```

To create a new request for time off, click the :guilabel:`New` button on either the main *Time Off*
:guilabel:`Dashboard` or the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view.

.. note::
   Both :guilabel:`New` buttons allow the user to request time off, but when requested from the

>    :guilabel:`Dashboard`, a :guilabel:`New Time Off` request form appears in a pop-up window. When
>    requested from the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view, the screen navigates to a new time off
>    request page, instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Dashboard`, a :guilabel:`New Time Off` request form appears in a modal. When requested
   from the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view, the screen navigates to a new time off request page,
   instead.
```

Enter the following information on the :guilabel:`New Time Off` request form:

- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: select the type of time off being requested from the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Dates`: enter the dates that the time off falls under. There are two fields to

>   populate, the start and end dates. Click on either date field and a pop-up calendar appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  populate, the start and end dates. Click on either date field and a popover calendar appears.
```

  completed. If the :guilabel:`Date` section is modified, this section automatically updates to
  reflect the total time off requested. This field is in either hours or days, depending on how the
  selected :guilabel:`Time Off Type` is configured.
- :guilabel:`Description`: enter a description for the time off request. This should include any
  details that managers and approvers may need in order to approve the request.
- :guilabel:`Supporting Document`: this field only appears if the :guilabel:`Time Off Type` selected
  allows for the attachments of documents. Click the :guilabel:`Attach File` button, and a file
  explorer window appears.

  Navigate to the desired files to attach, select them, then click the :guilabel:`Open` button. The
  files then appear on the time off request form. Multiple documents can be attached, if necessary.

If the request was created from the :guilabel:`Dashboard`, click the :guilabel:`Save & Close` button
to save the information and submit the request.

If the form was completed from the :guilabel:`My Time Off` list view, the information is
automatically saved as it is entered. However, the form can be saved manually at any time by

> clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a :guilabel:`cloud upload` icon.

Reviewer: icon formatting and tag use
```suggestion
clicking the *save manually* button, represented by a :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon.
```

  Navigate to the file(s) to attach, then click the :guilabel:`Open` button. The files then appear
  on the time off request form. Multiple documents can be attached, if necessary.

> If the request was created from the :guilabel:`dashboard`, click the :guilabel:`Save & Close` button

Reviewer 2: Where can I find this dashboard? You can add menuselection instructions to show the reader how to get there, or provide a ref link to jump there so the reader can learn more about this dashboard (:

If an employee has used all their time off, or is going to run out of time off, they can request an
allocation for additional time. Allocations can be requested in one of two ways, either from the

> :ref:`dashboard <time_off/dashboard>` or the :ref:`My Allocations <time_off/my-allocations>` view.

Author: Since we changed the previous one to a capital, I'll do the same here.

To access the dashboard, navigate to the :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`.

> This is also the default view for the *Time Off* application.

Author: When I say "default view" for an app, what I want the user to understand is that "this is what it looks like" anytime you go into the app. That's what I mean when I say the dashboard is the "default view". Does that make sense? If not, I can change it to something that is less confusing, but I thought that was clear. I did change it to the 'first page that appears' in the previous sentence- so I will change it here, but that was my intention in how I wrote it.

I also realized that this phrase I often use in my docs, so if that is not preferred, I will need to keep that in mind.

To access :guilabel:`My Allocations`, navigate to the :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time -->
My Allocations`. This presents a list view of all the allocations for the employee.

To create a new allocation request, click either the :guilabel:`New Allocation Request` button on
the main *Time Off* dashboard, or the :guilabel:`New` button in the :guilabel:`My Allocations` list
view. Both buttons open a new allocation request form.

.. note::
   Both :guilabel:`New` buttons open a :guilabel:`New Allocation` request form, but when requested
   from the :guilabel:`Dashboard`, the form appears in a pop-up window. When requested from the
   :guilabel:`My Allocations` list view, the screen navigates to a new allocation request page
   instead.

Enter the following information on the :guilabel:`New Allocation` request form:

- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: select the type of time off being requested for the allocation from the

>   drop-down menu. After a selection is made, the title updates with the time off type.

Author: Also- explains why I missed it and didn't see it when I was using my DB!

- :guilabel:`Allocation`: enter the amount of time being requested. The format is presented in
  either days or hours, depending on how the time off type is configured. Once this field is
  populated, the name of the allocation request is updated to include the amount of time being
  requested.
- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: enter a description for the allocation request. This should include
  any details that managers and approvers may need in order to approve the request.

If the request was created from the :guilabel:`dashboard`, click the :guilabel:`Save & Close` button
to save the information and submit the request. If the form was completed from the :guilabel:`My
Allocations` list view, the information is automatically saved as it is entered. However, the form
can be saved manually at any time by clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a

> :guilabel:`cloud with an upwards arrow inside` icon.

Author: I also updated this to the " :guilabel:`cloud upload` icon" since that was a correction form another doc (and is way shorter!)

Requests either need one or two approvals, if any, depending on how the specific type of time off is
configured. These are all housed under the :guilabel:`Management` section of the *Time Off*
application.

Only users who can approve allocation and time off requests have the :guilabel:`Management` section
visible in the *Time Off* application.

.. _time_off/manage-time-off:

Manage time off
---------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app -->
Management --> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

The default filter in the :guilabel:`Time Off` list is :guilabel:`Waiting For Me`. This only
presents time off requests that need to be approved for current employees on the user's team, with a
status of either :guilabel:`To Approve` or :guilabel:`Second Approval`.

The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented time off
requests. Since only time off requests that need to be approved are shown, the only status options

> are :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`To Approve`, and :guilabel:`Second Approval`. The various

Author: This ONLY appears if there are items that have that particular status for the signed-in user. In the runbots, there are never any requests with a "to approve" status- so I had to make one in a DB and see that it appears. So that's why you won't see any in a runbot. But you can also reject a request, then set it to draft and force it to have a 'to approve' status- THEN you can see it! I will add a note that if there aren't requests for the specific status (or dept), it's not seen.

:guilabel:`Departments` the user is a member of and manages employees under, also appear on the left
side.

To view requests with other statuses, first remove the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter, by
clicking the :guilabel:`✖️ (remove)` icon next to the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter to remove
it.

To display time off requests for specific departments only, click on the :guilabel:`Department` on
the left-hand side. Only requests within the selected department are then presented.

The status column displays the status of each request, with the status highlighted in a specific
color.

The :guilabel:`To Approve` and :guilabel:`Second Approval` requests are highlighted in yellow and
are the only ones that appear in the list by default. If the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter is
removed, then all statuses appear. :guilabel:`Approved` requests are highlighted in green,
:guilabel:`To Submit` (drafts) requests are highlighted in blue, and the :guilabel:`Refused`

> requests are highlighted in gray.

Author: I double checked - and can confirm, this is correct:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/85f1223f-7c7f-4caa-9325-b14b62796c93)

To approve a time off request, click the :guilabel:`👍 Approve` button at the end of the line. To
validate a time off request that has already been approved and is waiting on a second approval,
click the :guilabel:`✔️ Validate` button at the end of the line. To refuse a request, click the
:guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` button at the far end of the line.

.. image:: time_off/time-off-requests.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off requests with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

For more details, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for the :guilabel:`👍
Approve`, :guilabel:`✔️ Validate`, and :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` buttons) to load the time off request
form. Depending on the rights of the user, changes can be made.

To modify the request, make any desired changes to the form. All changes are automatically saved.

> It is also possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Approve`

Author: Thank you- after looking- it is approve for both approvals (first or second) and Odoo uses Validate only for the allocation requests. I guess this is to help the managers remind themselves which page they are on!

> It is also possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Approve`

Author: OK i triple checked- and this is correct.
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/121518652/b4568a22-e465-4486-a042-ed0c107f3ed2)

First, you only see "Validate" for the second approval- that will only show up if you are signed in as the person who is set as the second approver for that time off type or employee. So in a runbot- to force this to appear- remove the 'waiting for me' filter - for whatever reason, the request in the system that is waiting to be validated is not waiting for Mitchell Admin- so it must be Marc Demo or a different user who is set as the second paprover for the time off type.

Second, another fun fact I discovered- this only appears in the 17.0 and 17.1 runbot- in 17.2, this does not appear. So in 17.2 they changed this. But I have been writing these docs for 17.0-  so I think there is value to keep it. Since, if it doesn't exist- they won't see it, but if they do, they will have the instructions.

- :guilabel:`Allocation`: enter the amount of time being requested. The format is presented in
  either days or hours, depending on how the time off type is configured. Once this field is
  populated, the name of the allocation request is updated to include the amount of time being
  requested.
- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: enter a description for the allocation request. This should include
  any details that managers and approvers may need in order to approve the request.

If the request was created from the :guilabel:`dashboard`, click the :guilabel:`Save & Close` button
to save the information and submit the request. If the form was completed from the :guilabel:`My
Allocations` list view, the information is automatically saved as it is entered. However, the form
can be saved manually at any time by clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a
:guilabel:`cloud with an upwards arrow inside` icon.

.. image:: time_off/allocation-request.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An allocation request form filled out for an employee requesting an additional week of
         sick time.

.. _time_off/approvals:

Management
==========

> Most requests for time off and allocations need to go through an approval process prior to the time
> off being granted to an employee. Requests either need one or two approvals, if any, depending on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Time off and allocation requests typically undergo an approval process before being granted. Requests
either need one or two approvals, if any, depending on
```

Only users who can approve allocation and time off requests have the :guilabel:`Management` section
visible in the *Time Off* application.

.. _time_off/manage-time-off:

Manage time off
---------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app -->
Management --> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Time
Off* application.

The default filters in the :guilabel:`Time Off` list is :guilabel:`Waiting For Me`. This only
presents time off requests that need to be approved for current employees on the user's team, with a
status of either :guilabel:`To Approve` or :guilabel:`Second Approval`.

The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented time off
requests. Since only time off requests that need to be approved are shown, the only status options
are :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`To Approve`, and :guilabel:`Second Approval`. The various
:guilabel:`Departments` the user is a member of and manage employees under, also appears on the left
side.

> To view requests with other statuses, first remove the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter, by
> clicking the :guilabel:`✖️ (remove)` icon next to the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter to remove
> it.

Reviewer 2: Totally up to you, the writer's choice, but I personally don't think we need to be so granular in explaining that we click the x to close a filter. I personally think "remove the filter" is enough. Totally your opinion, so feel free to ignore!
```suggestion
To view requests with other statuses, first remove the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter.
```

To display time off requests for specific departments only, click on the department on the left-hand
side. Only requests within the selected department are then presented.

The status column displays the status of each request, with the status highlighted in a specific
color.

The :guilabel:`To Approve` and :guilabel:`Second Approval` requests are highlighted in yellow, and
are the only ones that appear in the list by default. If the :guilabel:`Waiting For Me` filter is
removed, then all statuses appear. :guilabel:`Approved` requests are highlighted in green,
:guilabel:`To Submit` (drafts) requests are highlighted in blue, and the :guilabel:`Refused`
requests are highlighted in gray.

To approve a time off request, click :guilabel:`👍 Approve` at the end of the line. To validate a
time off request that has already been approved and is waiting on a second approval, click
:guilabel:`✔️ Validate` at the end of the line. To refuse a request, click :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` at
the far end of the line.

.. image:: time_off/time-off-requests.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off requests with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

> If more details are needed, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for :guilabel:`👍

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, click anywhere on the time off request line (except for :guilabel:`👍
```

> Approve`, :guilabel:`✔️ Validate`, and :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse`) to load the time off request form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Approve`, :guilabel:`✔️ Validate`, and :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` buttons) to load the time off request form.
```

configured. These are all housed under the :guilabel:`Management` section of the *Time Off*
application.

Only users who can approve allocation and time off requests have the :guilabel:`Management` section
visible in the *Time Off* application.

.. _time_off/manage-time-off:

Manage time off
---------------

To view time off requests that need approval, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app -->
Management --> Time Off`. The only time off requests visible on this list are for employees the user
has either :guilabel:`Time Off Officer` or :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for in the *Time
Off* application.

The default filter in the :guilabel:`Time Off` list is `Waiting For Me`. This only presents time off
requests that need to be approved for current employees on the user's team, with a status of either
:guilabel:`To Approve` or :guilabel:`Second Approval`.

The left side of the screen has various grouping options to narrow down the presented time off
requests. Since only time off requests that need to be approved are shown, the only status options
are :guilabel:`All`, :guilabel:`To Approve`, and :guilabel:`Second Approval`. The various

> departments the user is a member of and manages employees under, also appear on the left side of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
departments the user is a member of, and manages employees under, also appear on the left side of the
```

If an employee has used all their time off, or is going to run out of time off, they can request an
allocation for additional time. Allocations can be requested in one of two ways, either from the
:ref:`Dashboard <time_off/dashboard>` or the :ref:`My Allocations <time_off/my-allocations>` view.

> To access the dashboard, navigate to the :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`.
> This is also what is shown by default when the *Time Off* application is opened.

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove the Dashboard navigation since you referenced it above
```suggestion
```

> To access :guilabel:`My Allocations`, navigate to the :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time -->
> My Allocations`. This presents a list view of all the allocations for the employee.

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove the My Allocations navigation since you referenced it above
```suggestion
```

To create a new allocation request, click either the :guilabel:`New Allocation Request` button on
the main *Time Off* dashboard, or the :guilabel:`New` button in the :guilabel:`My Allocations` list
view. Both buttons open a new allocation request form.

.. note::
   Both :guilabel:`New` buttons open a :guilabel:`New Allocation` request form, but when requested

>    from the :guilabel:`Dashboard`, the form appears in a pop-up window. When requested from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   from the :guilabel:`Dashboard`, the form appears in a modal. When requested from the
```

  **not** appear if the :guilabel:`Take Time Off in` field is set to :guilabel:`Hours`.

  Using the calendar selector, select a start and end date the allocation is valid for. By default,
  the current date populates the first field, and :guilabel:`No Limit` populates the second field.

  Adjust both of these dates, if desired.
- :guilabel:`Allocation`: enter the amount of time being requested in this field. The format is
  presented in either days or hours, depending on how the time off type is configured. Once this
  field is populated, the name of the allocation request is updated to include the amount of time
  being requested.
- :guilabel:`Add a reason...`: enter a description for the allocation request. This should include
  any details that managers and approvers may need in order to approve the request.

If the request was created from the :guilabel:`Dashboard`, click the :guilabel:`Save & Close` button
to save the information and submit the request.

If the form was completed from the :guilabel:`My Allocations` list view, the information is
automatically saved as it is entered. However, the form can be saved manually at any time by

> clicking the :guilabel:`Save manually` option, represented by a :guilabel:`cloud upload` icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clicking the *save manually* button, represented by a :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon.
```

saved.

It is also possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Validate`
button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

Overview
========

To view a color-coded schedule of both the user's time off, and/or the team managed by them,
navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Overview`. This presents a calendar with the default
filter of :guilabel:`My Team`, in a month view.

To change the time period displayed, click on the :guilabel:`Month` button to reveal a drop-down
menu. Then select either :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, or :guilabel:`Year` to present the
calendar in that corresponding view.

To navigate forward or backward in time in the selected increment (:guilabel:`Month`,
:guilabel:`Week`, etc.) click the :guilabel:`← (left arrow)` or :guilabel:`→ (right arrow)` to move
either forwards or backwards in that specified amount of time.

For example, if :guilabel:`Month` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one month.

To return to a view containing the current day, click the :guilabel:`Today` button at any time.

> Each team member is displayed on a line in alphabetical order, and any time off they requested,
> regardless of the status (:guilabel:`Validated` or :guilabel:`To Approve`), appears on the calendar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Team members are listed alphabetically on individual lines, and their requested time off, regardless of the status (:guilabel:`Validated` or :guilabel:`To Approve`), is visible on the calendar.
```

color.

The :guilabel:`To Approve` requests are highlighted in yellow, :guilabel:`Approved` requests are
highlighted in green, and the :guilabel:`Refused` requests are highlighted in gray.

> To approve an allocation request, click the :guilabel:`✔ Validate` button at the end of the line,
> to refuse a request, click the :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To approve an allocation request, click the :guilabel:`✔ Validate` button at the end of the line.
To refuse a request, click the :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` button.
```

.. image:: time_off/allocations.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Allocations with the filter, groupings, and status sections highlighted.

If more details are needed, click anywhere on the allocation request line (except for the
:guilabel:`✔ Validate` and :guilabel:`✖️ Refuse` buttons) to view the request in detail.

Depending on the rights of the user, changes can be made to the allocation request form that
appears. To modify the request, make any desired changes to the form. All changes are automatically
saved.

It is also possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Validate`
button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

Overview
========

> To view a color-coded schedule of the user's time off, and/or the team managed by them, navigate to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To view a color-coded schedule of the user's time off, and/or of the team managed by them, navigate to
```

:menuselection:`Time Off app --> Overview`. This presents a calendar with the default filter of `My
Team`, in a month view.

To change the time period displayed, click on the :guilabel:`Month` button to reveal a drop-down
menu. Then, select either :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, or :guilabel:`Year` to present the
calendar in that corresponding view.

To navigate forward or backward in time, in the selected increment (:guilabel:`Month`,
:guilabel:`Week`, etc.), click the :guilabel:`← (left arrow)` or :guilabel:`→ (right arrow)` to move
either forward or backward in that specified amount of time.

For example, if :guilabel:`Month` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one month.

To return to a view containing the current day, click the :guilabel:`Today` button at any time.

Team members are listed alphabetically on individual lines, and their requested time off,

> regardless of the status (validated or to approve), is visible on the calendar.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
regardless of the status (`validated` or `to approve`), is visible on the calendar.
```

Each employee is color-coded. The employee's color is selected at random, and does *not* correspond
to the type of time off they requested.

> The status of the time off is represented by the color of the request, either appearing solid

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The status of the time off is represented by the color detail of the request, either appearing solid
```

(validated) or striped (to approve).

The number of days or hours requested is written on the request (if there is enough space).

At the bottom of the calendar, in the :guilabel:`Total` line, a bar graph shows how many people are
projected to be out on any given day. The number on each individual bar represents the number of
employees out for those highlighted days.

> Click on a time off entry to view the details for the specific time off entry. The total number of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click on a time off entry to view the details for that specific time off entry. The total number of
```

saved.

It is also possible to approve or refuse the request from this form. Click the :guilabel:`Validate`
button to approve, or the :guilabel:`Refuse` button to refuse the request.

Overview
========

To view a color-coded schedule of the user's time off, and/or of the team managed by them, navigate
to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Overview`. This presents a calendar with the default filter of
`My Team`, in a month view.

To change the time period displayed, click on the :guilabel:`Month` button to reveal a drop-down
menu. Then, select either :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, or :guilabel:`Year` to present the
calendar in that corresponding view.

To navigate forward or backward in time, in the selected increment (:guilabel:`Month`,
:guilabel:`Week`, etc.), click the :guilabel:`← (left arrow)` or :guilabel:`→ (right arrow)` to move
either forward or backward in that specified amount of time.

For example, if :guilabel:`Month` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one month.

To return to a view containing the current day, click the :guilabel:`Today` button at any time.

Team members are listed alphabetically on individual lines, and their requested time off,

> regardless of the status (`validated` or `to approve`), is visible on the calendar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
regardless of the status (*validated* or *to approve*), is visible on the calendar.
```

Each employee is color-coded. The employee's color is selected at random, and does *not* correspond
to the type of time off they requested.

The status of the time off is represented by the color detail of the request, either appearing solid

> (`validated`) or striped (`to approve`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(*validated*) or striped (*to approve*).
```

The number of days or hours requested is written on the request (if there is enough space).

At the bottom of the calendar, in the :guilabel:`Total` line, a bar graph shows how many people are
projected to be out on any given day. The number on each individual bar represents the number of
employees out for those highlighted days.

Click on a time off entry to view the details for the specific time off entry. The total number of
hours or days are listed, along with the start and end time of the time off. To view the details of

> the time off request in a larger pop-up window, click the :guilabel:`View` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the time off request in a modal, click the :guilabel:`View` button.
```

fall under that type.

The information shown in the list includes the :guilabel:`Employee` name, :guilabel:`Number of Days`
off requested, the :guilabel:`Start Date`, :guilabel:`End Date`, :guilabel:`Status`, and
:guilabel:`Description`.

.. image:: time_off/employee-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report of time off, shown by each employee in a list view.

The report can be displayed in other ways. Click the corresponding button option in the top-right
corner of the page to view the data in that way. The various options are a :guilabel:`List` (the
default view) :guilabel:`Graph`, :guilabel:`Pivot` table, or :guilabel:`Calendar` view.

.. image:: time_off/report-options.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The various other views highlighted, for the employee time off report.

When a selection has been made, additional options appear for that particular selection.

The graph options are :guilabel:`Bar Chart`, :guilabel:`Line Chart`, or :guilabel:`Pie Chart`. The
:guilabel:`Bar Chart` includes an option to present the data :guilabel:`Stacked`. Both the
:guilabel:`Bar Chart` and :guilabel:`Line Chart` have options to present the data in either

> :guilabel:`Descending` or :guilabel:`Ascending` order.

Reviewer 3: There is also no mention of the 'Measures' drop-down menu -- nor is there any other mention of the other view specific options...so can either leave that description as-is in line 875, or add the necessary explanations, if you decide to go that route. Your call, though.

Author: I opted for a mix- I removed the last detailed chunk and added a link to the new reporting doc that cover all of those buttons and various options.

By type
-------

To view a list of all time off, organized by time off type, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app
--> Reporting --> by Type`. This shows all time off requests in a default bar chart.

Hover over a bar to view the :guilabel:`Duration (Days)` of that specific time off type.

.. image:: time_off/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The various time off types, and how many days requested, in a bar chart. Details are
         highlighted in a red box.

> Click on a bar to go to a detailed list view of all the time off requests for that time off type.
> Each request is listed, with the following information displayed: the :guilabel:`Employee`,
> :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Request Type`, :guilabel:`Start Date`, :guilabel:`End Date`,
> :guilabel:`Status`, and the :guilabel:`Description`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click on a bar to view a detailed list of all the time off requests for that specific time off type.

Each request is listed, with the following information displayed: the :guilabel:`Employee`,
:guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Request Type`, :guilabel:`Start Date`, :guilabel:`End Date`,
:guilabel:`Status`, and the :guilabel:`Description`.
```

> The report can be displayed in other ways. Click the corresponding button option in the top-right

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The report can be displayed in other ways, as well. Click the corresponding button option in the top-right
```

corner of the page to view the data in that way. The various options are a :guilabel:`Graph` (the
default view), :guilabel:`List`, or :guilabel:`Pivot` table.

When a selection has been made, additional options appear for that particular selection.

The graph options are :guilabel:`Bar Chart` (the default view), :guilabel:`Line Chart`, or
:guilabel:`Pie Chart`. The :guilabel:`Bar Chart` includes an option to present the data
:guilabel:`Stacked` (the default view). Both the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` and :guilabel:`Line Chart`

> have options to present the data in either :guilabel:`Descending` or :guilabel:`Ascending` order.

Reviewer 3: same comment as above

All users have access to the time off dashboard, which is the default view in the *Time Off*
application. The dashboard can also be accessed at any point in the application by navigating to
:menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`.

The current year is displayed, and the current day is highlighted in red.

> To change the view, click on the :guilabel:`Year` button to reveal a drop-down menu. Then select

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To change the view, click on the :guilabel:`Year` button to reveal a drop-down menu. Then, select
```

presented view.

For example, if :guilabel:`Year` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one year.

To change the view at any point to a view that includes the current date, click the
:guilabel:`Today` button.

Above the calendar view is a summary of the user's time off balances. Every time off type that has
been allocated appears in its own summary box. Each summary lists the type of time off, the
corresponding icon, the current available balance (in hours or days), and an expiration date (if
applicable).

To view the full details of a time off balance, click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)` icon at the
end of the `DAYS/HOURS AVAILABLE` on the time off summary. The complete details are presented in a
pop-up window, including the :guilabel:`Allocated` time, future :guilabel:`Accrual` time,
:guilabel:`Approved` time off scheduled, :guilabel:`Planned` time off, and the currently
:guilabel:`Available` time off.

.. image:: time_off/balance-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A view of the complete time off balance details in the pop-up window.

A user is also able to see how much time off they will have accrued in the future. On the right side

> of the time-off summary blocks, there is a `Balance at the (date)` field. Click on the date, and a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of the time off summary blocks, there is a `Balance at the (date)` field. Click on the date, and a
```

corresponding colors. The :guilabel:`Legend` explains how the various statuses for time off requests
are presented.

Time off that has been validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the
:guilabel:`Time Off Type` section above the :guilabel:`Legend`). Time off requests that still need
to be approved appear with white stripes in the color. Refused time off requests have a colored line
through the dates.

New time off requests can be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New` button at the top of
the dashboard, and a :ref:`New Time Off <time_off/request-time-off>` pop-up window appears.

New allocation requests can also be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New Allocation
Request` button at the top of the dashboard to request more time off, and a :ref:`New Allocation
<time_off/request-allocation>` pop-up window appears.

.. image:: time_off/dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Time off dashboard view with the legend, time off summaries, and view buttons highlighted.

.. _time_off/my-time-off:

My time off
-----------

To view a list of all the user's time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> My

> Time --> My Time Off`. Here, all time off requests appear in a list view, both past and present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Time --> My Time Off`. Here, all time off requests, both past and present, appear in a list view.
```

Type`, :guilabel:`Description`, :guilabel:`Amount`, :guilabel:`Allocation Type`, and
:guilabel:`Status`.

A new allocation request can be made from this view, as well. Click the :guilabel:`New` button to
:ref:`request an allocation <time_off/request-allocation>`.

.. _time_off/reporting:

Reporting
=========

The reporting feature allows users to view time off for their team, either by employee or type of
time off. This allows users to see which employees are taking time off, how much time off they are
taking, and what time off types are being used.

Any report can be added to a spreadsheet through the *Insert in Spreadsheet* button that appears in
the top-left of a report. If the *Documents* application is installed, an option to add the report
to a spreadsheet appears. If not, the report can be added to a *Dashboard*.

By employee
-----------

To view a report of employee time off requests, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app -->
Reporting --> by Employee`.

The default report presents the current year's data in a list view, displaying all the employees in
alphabetical order. Each employee's line is collapsed by default. To expand a line, click anywhere
on the line.

> The view expands and has the time off requests organized by time off type. Click anywhere on a time

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The view expands, and has the time off requests organized by time off type. Click anywhere on a time
```

:menuselection:`Time Off app --> My Time --> Dashboard`.

The current year is displayed, and the current day is highlighted in red.

To change the view, click on the :guilabel:`Year` button to reveal a drop-down menu. Then, select
either :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, or :guilabel:`Month` to present the calendar in that
corresponding view.

To change the presented dates, click the :guilabel:`← (left arrow)` or :guilabel:`→ (right arrow)`
icons to the left of the :guilabel:`Year` button. The calendar view adjusts in increments of the
presented view.

For example, if :guilabel:`Year` is selected, the arrows adjust the view by one year.

To change the view at any point to a view that includes the current date, click the
:guilabel:`Today` button.

Above the calendar view is a summary of the user's time off balances. Every time off type that has
been allocated appears in its own summary box. Each summary lists the type of time off, the
corresponding icon, the current available balance (in hours or days), and an expiration date (if
applicable).

To view the full details of a time off balance, click the :guilabel:`? (question mark)` icon at the

> end of the `DAYS/HOURS AVAILABLE` on the time off summary. The complete details are presented in a
> pop-up window, including the :guilabel:`Allocated` time, future :guilabel:`Accrual` time,
> :guilabel:`Approved` time off scheduled, :guilabel:`Planned` time off, and the currently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
end of the :guilabel:`(DAYS/HOURS) AVAILABLE` on the time off summary. The complete details are
presented in a popover window, including the :guilabel:`Allocated` time, future :guilabel:`Accrual`
time, :guilabel:`Approved` time off scheduled, :guilabel:`Planned` time off, and the currently
```

:guilabel:`Available` time off.

.. image:: time_off/balance-details.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: A view of the complete time off balance details in the pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: A view of the complete time off balance details in the popover window.
```

A user is also able to see how much time off they will have accrued in the future. On the right side

> of the time off summary blocks, there is a `Balance at the (date)` field. Click on the date, and a
> calendar selector pop-up window appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the time off summary blocks, there is a :guilabel:`Balance at the (date)` field. Click on the
date, and a calendar selector popover appears.
```

The current date is the default date selected. Navigate to the desired date, and Odoo displays the
time off balances the user will have on that date. This takes into account all time off currently
planned and approved. To return to the current date, click the :guilabel:`Today` button to the right
of the date field.

On the right side of the calendar, the various time off types are displayed, with their
corresponding colors. The :guilabel:`Legend` explains how the various statuses for time off requests
are presented.

Time off that has been validated appears in a solid color (in the color specified in the
:guilabel:`Time Off Type` section above the :guilabel:`Legend`). Time off requests that still need
to be approved appear with white stripes in the color. Refused time off requests have a colored line
through the dates.

New time off requests can be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New` button at the top of

> the dashboard, and a :ref:`New Time Off <time_off/request-time-off>` pop-up window appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the dashboard, and a :ref:`New Time Off <time_off/request-time-off>` modal appears.
```

New allocation requests can also be made from the dashboard. Click the :guilabel:`New Allocation
Request` button at the top of the dashboard to request more time off, and a :ref:`New Allocation

> <time_off/request-allocation>` pop-up window appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<time_off/request-allocation>` modal appears.
```
